Initializing all the weights with zeros leads the neurons to learn the same features during training. In fact, any constant initialization scheme will perform very poorly.Zero initialization:

 If all the weights are initialized to zeros, the derivatives will remain same for every w in W[l]. As a result, neurons will learn same features in each iterations. This problem is known as network failing to break symmetry. And not only zero, any constant initialization will produce a poor result.Random initialization is a better choice to break the symmetry. However, initializing weight with much high or low value can result in slower optimization.Weight initialization is a procedure to set the weights of a neural network to small random values that define the starting point for the optimization (learning or training) of the neural network model.Main problem with initialization of all weights to zero mathematically leads to either the neuron values are zero (for multi layers) or the delta would be zero.Initializing all the weights with zeros leads the neurons to learn the same features during training. In fact, any constant initialization scheme will perform very poorly. Consider a neural network with two hidden units, and assume we initialize all the biases to 0 and the weights with some constant α.It is possible and common to initialize the biases to be zero, since the asymmetry breaking is provided by the small random numbers in the weights.Which of the following guidelines is applicable to initialization of the weight vector in a fully connected neural network. If we initialize all the weights to zero, the neural network will train but all the neurons will learn the same features during training.Weights control the signal (or the strength of the connection) between two neurons. In other words, a weight decides how much influence the input will have on the output. Biases, which are constant, are an additional input into the next layer that will always have the value of 1.If all the weights are initialized to zero, backpropagation will not work as expected because the gradient for the intermediate neurons and starting neurons will die out(become zero) and will not update ever.Solution: BEven if all the biases are zero, there is a chance that neural network may learn. On the other hand, if all the weights are zero; the neural neural network may never learn to perform the task.E.g. if all weights are initialized to 1, each unit gets signal equal to sum of inputs (and outputs sigmoid(sum(inputs)) ). If all weights are zeros, which is even worse, every hidden unit will get zero signal. No matter what was the input - if all weights are the same, all units in hidden layer will be the same too.The Hebbian learning rule is generally applied to logic gates. The training steps of the algorithm are as follows: Initially, the weights are set to zero, i.e. w =0 for all inputs i =1 to n and n is the total number of input neurons.In Neural network, some inputs are provided to an artificial neuron, and with each input a weight is associated. Weight increases the steepness of activation function. This means weight decide how fast the activation function will trigger whereas bias is used to delay the triggering of the activation function.
